Woody vegetation measurements are designed for use in estimating plant biomass and productivity at NEON sites. Published allometries for plant biomass as it relates to height, stem diameter, taxonomic identification, and other measurements should be used to make these estimates.

To extrapolate from individual plants to the plot- or site-level, data users must account for the plot-specific use of nested subplots by growth form. Different nested subplot areas can be used within the same plot for different growth forms (i.e., different nested subplot sizes are allowed for each of shrubs/saplings/small-trees, lianas, ferns, and all 'other'), and nested subplot area can also vary from plot-to-plot for the same growth form. Thus, to calculate biomass, stem density, etc. at the plot scale, it is necessary to account for the nested subplot area by growth form per plot using nested subplot area data in the vst_perplotperyear table. Additional presence/absence data in the vst_perplotperyear table are needed to properly estimate biomass and other variables at the site-level; specifically, vst_perplotperyear records with targetTaxaPresent = "No" are the mechanism by which NEON documents plots with zero qualifying vegetation, and these zeroes are critical when generating site-scale parameter estimates.

Other data products measuring components of biomass and productivity include Non-herbaceous perennial vegetation structure (DP1.10045.001; bundled with this product from RELEASE-2022 onward), Litterfall and fine woody debris (NEON.DP1.10033), herbaceous clip harvest (NEON.DP1.10023), root biomass and chemistry (DP1.10067), coarse downed wood log surveys (NEON.DP1.10010), and coarse downed wood bulk density (NEON.DP1.10014).

Woody vegetation measurements can also be used as ground references for NEON remote sensing data. To calculate the location of each mapped individual, follow the instructions in the User Guide, or use the geoNEON R package to perform the calculations. https://github.com/NEONScience/NEON-geolocation
